All right, so now that we got signin
working, we need to actually make
the pages on the front end the forms
to actually signin and signup.
And then we need to restrict access
to the actual music player for
people who have an account.
And then all the things that go with
that detecting if the cookie is still or
the WJT is still good.
Blocking access to the pages,
blocking access to the API routes.
There's a lot of different moving
pieces when it comes to access and
an application.
And you gotta make sure you try your best
to defend all those different points
of access.
So that's what we're gonna
try to do in the XJS way.
And there's honestly so
many different ways to do this in XJS and
I remember just contemplating.
How would I actually do this?
And then they released
a new version of Next.js,
even newer way to do it, I was,
okay, this is actually kinda cool.
So we'll be talking about a lot
of different ways to do and
I'll talk about why we're approaching
it this way for this scenario.
And another way for different scenarios.
So ask a lot of questions if you're
trying to figure out what's going on.
Okay, so what we'll do next, like I said,
is we'll make these pages for
the signin and signup.
And they're mostly the same pages.
And if you think about it, if you
have a signin form and a signup form,
they're both the same thing.
There's email field,
the password field and a submit button.
And the only thing different about
them is what route they submit to and
the label on the button, right?
It'll either say signin or
it'll say signup that's it,
maybe some text on the page.
So because of that,
we're just gonna create one component
that is basically all of that, right?
And then we have to figure out, where or
how we're going to actually
interact with the API.
So far we've made these API routes but
we haven't done anything on the client
side to actually interact with them.
So we should be using HTTPy or whatever,
client you have to interact with API.
So we actually have to
start thinking about, well,
how are we gonna make
calls on the client side?
And what does that look like?
So I think what we'll do first is,
we'll create some wrappers and
a little lip to interact with the API.
And then we'll create the pages that
will use that wrapper to make the calls.
So that's what we'll do and
this little live that we're gonna
make is actually gonna come in handy.
Only get into doing some more client
side fetching as far as the playlist and
things like that.
All right, so what we'll do is
we'll head over to this lib folder.
And then inside of this lib folder,
I'm gonna create a file called fetcher,
fetcher.ts.
And the purpose of the fetcher
is just abstracted
away our HCTP fetching mechanism.
Because we're gonna be using some
hook later on that needs this.
And it needs to be abstracted
away otherwise we're gonna do
a lot of manual work.
So, we're just gonna go ahead and
create this right now, and
we're just gonna export a function here.
And I'm just gonna call it fetcher,
and basically all this function is
gonna do is just do a fetch call for
us, but super abstracted away.
So the first argument is gonna be a URL,
that's gonna be a string.
The second argument is gonna be data and
that could be undefined if you
don't pass it, you don't need it.
And the reason I'm putting
undefined here is just to help me
out later on if you JSON
stringify undefined.
It just doesn't get set whereas if it was
null, it tries to do something else, so
I'm setting it equal to undefined.
So now we're just gonna return fetch if
you're not familiar with fetch this is,
its window.fetch.
It's the new mechanism
to interact with APIs.
It's kinda like Ajax, it is a different
mechanism to interact with HTTP calls.
It's built into the browser.
I was actually looking at other day,
and I didn't even notice this but
they now if you go into the network tab.
They now include fetch here on XHR,
they didn't have that before.
You had to figure out the fetch somewhere.
You have to filter it out yourself
because it only included XHR,
you had to click on all and
then type in a route to figure it out.
It was really annoying, but now they're,
all right, okay, it's the same thing.
So I don't know when they did that,
but that's super helpful.
Okay, so now we're back in fetch, we need
to basically just make this super generic.
So when you deploy your next JS app,
your API it's mounted on the same
domain as your front end app.
So we can get that by just
using the Window object,
right, so
we can just say window.location.origin.
So basically wherever the domain is that
you're on cuz when you deploy this to some
platform.
You don't buy a custom domain who knows
what the URL is gonna be you could go set
that environment variable and
then set it here.
And instead of local host on your local,
that totally works too, but
we could just use window.location.origin
and get the URL/API.
And then whatever URL that you pass us,
so that'd be the URL there.
And then just a bunch of options here.
So the first option is the method.
So if you pass us some data,
that means you're probably
trying to do a post request.
Otherwise, you're just doing a get request
and we'll just do get and post for now.
So that would be the method and then from
here, we're gonna do credentials include.
This ensures that we send the cookies
up for the JSON Web Token and
things like that.
So we got that.
And then last thing is just the headers
and fetch is not JSON first.
So you have to instruct fetch to, hey,
we're gonna be doing some JSON things.
I don't know why they just didn't make it.
Always just assume that you're doing JSON
because that's what we're doing these
days, but they're not.
So you have to be very explicit about that
sorta it's a content type application.
JSON like that.
And then the last thing is the body.
We're just gonna JSON dot stringify data.
And that's why I've made data undefined
because if you do that if it won't break
if it's undefined.
But if it's something else
that would totally break.
So we have our fetcher.
And then the next thing we wanna do is
we wanna create a function that will
make a API call to either signin or
signup using the fetcher.
So what I'll do now is inside the look
folder get I gonna make a new file,
I'm just gonna call this,
I don't know let's call this mutations.
So I'll put another file
here called mutations and
basically I'm gonna import the fetcher.
And then what I'm gonna do
is make a auth function, so
I'm gonna say, const_authl this
is gonna be a function like this.
And all this is gonna do is it's gonna
take in two things it's gonna take in.
I'm gonna call it a mode, so the modal
either be signin or it'll be signup.
So one of those because they're
literally the same payload and
then it'll take a body.
And then a body is of type object and
email which is a string and
then oops,
I'll need to put string and string.
And then password, which is also a string.
So look at that.
So that's some type script stuff for you.
If you wanna type check that.
You don't have to put
this TypeScript in here.
You could just put a comma,
like you would normally do in JavaScript.
I'm just doing that because it
seems there's an appetite for
some TypeScript stuff there.
So I did that.
So we got those two things
are strongly typed.
And then because this fetcher is so
cool, all we have to do is just say.
To return the fetcher the URL that we want
will just be slash whatever the mode is.
And then we just pass in the body,
that's it,
very simple because again the fetcher
already knows the prefix for the URL.
It's already doing slash API, whatever and
then it'll be the slash signin, signup.
And then we just pass the body which
will be an email and a password,
which we do know if you
look at our API signatures.
That we're looking for email and
password on this body for signup.
We're also looking for
an email password on this body for signin.
So that satisfies those requirements.
We should be good to use this
mutation inside of our forums.
Any questions on the fetcher and
in this auth mutation that I just made?
Yes.
>> So is the plan going forward that more
functions might land in this mutations
file or is this only for fetcher?
>> Yeah, a plan going forward is yeah,
every time I have to mutate the database,
I probably put a function in here.
That way I'm not creating it in
components somewhere right I'll prefer
to put them all here.
Yeah, so I can see them in one place.